---
layout: single
title: "Seattle"
tags: misc
---
It’s been a long time since I’ve posted. A lot has happened since my last entry: I left the Bay Area, moved to a Seattle, cut back on my consulting work, and rejoined Corporate America as a full-time employee.

When considering my new home, I thought about whether my new city offered major museums of art, large tech companies, and thriving communities of startups.

With regard to major collections of art, my personal ranking of US cities starting from the top is New York, DC, Chicago, and Los Angeles.

The Bay Area is the hands-down winner for large tech companies, boasting headquarters for Apple, Google, Facebook, plus too many others to name including Oracle, Cisco, Salesforce, Linkedin, Netflix, etc. Seattle is second with Amazon and Microsoft. Finally, Boston offers significant presence by Google, Facebook, Amazon, as well as large B2B players like EMC, IBM, etc.

My ranking for startup communities is: Bay Area, Boston, New York, Seattle, and possibly Los Angeles.

Ultimately I chose Seattle for work and personal reasons. Although Seattle is about as weak as SF in terms of major art museums, it's been a great place for a getting my hands dirty with my own drawing and painting. In January, I started some evening classes in cartoon/comic illustsration and acrylic painting. They've been a lot of fun. My classes have provided a valuable perspective to all the museum visiting and blog writing I've been doing the last few years. More on this soon.